QtOrganizer
===========

.. raw:: html

   <h3>

Elements

.. raw:: html

   </h3>

.. raw:: html

   <dl>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

AudibleReminder

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The AudibleReminder element contains information about an audible
reminder of an item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Classification

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Classification element contains classification-information of an
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Collection

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Collection element represents a collection of items in an organizer
manager.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

CollectionFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The CollectionFilter element provides a filter based around the
collection one organizer item belongs to.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Comment

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Comment element contains the comment text of an organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Description

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Description element contains the description text of an organizer
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Detail

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Detail element represents a single, complete detail about a
organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

DetailFieldFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The DetailFieldFilter element provides a filter based around a detail
value criterion.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

DetailFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The DetailFilter element provides a filter based around a detail value
criterion.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

DetailRangeFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The DetailRangeFilter element provides a filter based around a detail
value range criterion.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

DisplayLabel

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The DisplayLabel element contains the display label of an organizer
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

EmailReminder

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The EmailReminder element contains information about an email reminder
of an item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Event

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Event element provides an event in time which may reoccur.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

EventAttendee

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The EventAttendee element contains information about an attendee of an
event.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

EventOccurrence

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The EventOccurrence element provides an occurrence of an event.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

EventRsvp

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The EventRsvp element contains Rsvp-information of an event.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

EventTime

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The EventTime element contains the start and end dates and times of a
recurring event series, or occurrence of an event.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

ExtendedDetail

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The ExtendedDetail element contains a extended detail of an organizer
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

FetchHint

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The FetchHint element provides hints to the manager about which
organizer item information needs to be retrieved in an asynchronous
fetch request or a synchronous function call.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Filter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Filter element is used to filter items made available through a
backend.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Guid

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Guid element contains the GUID string of an organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

IdFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The IdFilter element provides a filter based around a list of organizer
item IDs.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

IntersectionFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The IntersectionFilter element provides a filter which intersects the
results of other filters.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

InvalidFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

the InvalidFilter element provides a filter which will never match any
organizer items.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

ItemType

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The ItemType element contains the type of an organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Journal

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Journal element provides a journal which is associated with a
particular point in time.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

JournalTime

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The JournalTime element contains the entry date and time of a journal
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Location

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Location element contains information about a location which is
related to the organizer item in some manner.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Note

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Note element provides a note which is not associated with any
particular point in time.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

OrganizerItem

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The OrganizerItem element represents the in-memory version of a
organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

OrganizerModel

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The OrganizerModel element provides access to organizer items from the
organizer store.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Parent

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Parent element contains information about the event or todo that
generated this item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Priority

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Priority element contains the priority of the organizer item, which
may be used to resolve scheduling conflicts.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Recurrence

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Recurrence element contains a list of rules and dates on which the
recurrent item occurs, and a list of rules and dates on which exceptions
occur.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

RecurrenceRule

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The RecurrenceRule element represents a rule by which a organizer item
repeats.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Reminder

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Reminder element contains information about when and how the user
wants to reminded of the item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

SortOrder

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The SortOrder element defines how a list of organizer item should be
ordered according to some criteria.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Tag

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Tag element contains the tag string of an organizer item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Timestamp

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Timestamp element contains the created and last modified timestamp
of an organizer item's creating date and time.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Todo

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Todo element provides a task which should be completed.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

TodoOccurrence

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The TodoOccurrence element provides an occurrence of an event.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

TodoProgress

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The TodoProgress element contains information about the progress of a
todo item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

TodoTime

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The TodoTime element contains the start and due dates and times of a
recurring todo series, or occurrence of an todo item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

UnionFilter

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The UnionFilter element provides a filter which unions the results of
other filters.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

Version

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The Version element contains versioning information of an organizer
item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   <dt>

VisualReminder

.. raw:: html

   </dt>

.. raw:: html

   <dd>

The VisualReminder element contains information about a visual reminder
of an item.

.. raw:: html

   </dd>

.. raw:: html

   </dl>
