QtQuick.qtquick-index
=====================

.. raw:: html

   <p>

The Qt Quick module is the standard library for writing QML
applications. While the Qt QML module provides the QML engine and
language infrastructure, the Qt Quick module provides all the basic
types necessary for creating user interfaces with QML. It provides a
visual canvas and includes types for creating and animating visual
components, receiving user input, creating data models and views and
delayed object instantiation.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

The Qt Quick module provides both a QML API which supplies QML types for
creating user interfaces with the QML language, and a C++ API for
extending QML applications with C++ code.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Note: From Qt 5.1, a set of Qt Quick based UI controls is available to
create user interfaces. Please see Qt Quick Controls for more
information.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

For those new to QML and Qt Quick, please see QML Applications for an
introduction to writing QML applications.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="important-concepts-in-qt-quick">

Important Concepts in Qt Quick

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Qt Quick provides everything needed to create a rich application with a
fluid and dynamic user interface. It enables user interfaces to be built
around the behavior of user interface components and how they connect
with one another, and it provides a visual canvas with its own
coordinate system and rendering engine. Animation and transition effects
are a first class concept in Qt Quick, and visual effects can be
supplemented through specialized components for particle and shader
effects.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

The Visual Canvas

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

User Input

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Positioning

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

States, Transitions And Animations

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Data - Models, Views and Data Storage

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Particles And Graphical Effects

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Convenience Types

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

When using the QtQuick module, you will need to know how to write QML
applications using the QML language. In particular, QML Basics and QML
Essentials from the QML Applications page.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

To find out more about using the QML language, see the Qt QML module
documentation.

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="c-extension-points">

C++ Extension Points

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

C++ Extension Points

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Creating User-Defined QQuickItem-Derived Types

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Scene Graph-Related Classes

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Pixmap and Threaded Image Support

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <h2 id="reference-documentation">

Reference Documentation

.. raw:: html

   </h2>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Additional Qt Quick information:

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt Quick C++ Classes - the C++ API provided by the Qt Quick module

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt Quick QML Types - a list of QML types provided by the QtQuick import

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

XML List Model - contains types for creating models from XML data

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Local Storage - a submodule containing a JavaScript interface for an
SQLite database

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Particles - provides a particle system for Qt Quick

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Window - contains types for creating top-level windows and accessing
screen information

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Dialogs - contains types for creating and interacting with system
dialogs

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Tests - contains types for writing unit test for a QML application

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt Quick Release Notes - list of changes and additions in the Qt Quick

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt Quick Examples and Tutorials

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <p>

Further information for writing QML applications:

.. raw:: html

   </p>

.. raw:: html

   <ul>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

QML Applications - essential information for application development
with QML and Qt Quick

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   <li>

Qt QML - documentation for the Qt QML module, which provides the QML
engine and language infrastructure

.. raw:: html

   </li>

.. raw:: html

   </ul>

.. raw:: html

   <!-- @@@qtquick-index.html -->
